kitty-specs/001-agentic-cad-environment/tasks/WP05-core-environment-loop.md, before:

---
work_package_id: WP05
title: Core Environment Loop
lane: "done"
dependencies: []
subtasks:
- T020
- T021
- T022
- T023
- T024
phase: Phase 5 - Integration
assignee: "Antigravity"
agent: "Gemini"
shell_pid: "152717"
reviewed_by: "MRiabov"
review_status: "approved"
history:
- timestamp: '{{TIMESTAMP}}'
  lane: planned
  assignee: "Antigravity"
agent: system
  action: Prompt generated via /spec-kitty.tasks
---

# Work Package Prompt: WP05 – Core Environment Loop

## Objectives & Success Criteria

- **Goal**: Implement the `Gymnasium` environment class that orchestrates the entire loop: Observation -> Action -> Tool -> Reward -> Log.
- **Success Criteria**:
  - `CADEnv` class exists and inherits `gym.Env`.
  - `step()` processes tool calls and returns correct `(obs, reward, done, info)`.
  - `submit_design` triggers the WP02/WP03 pipeline and returns a reward.
  - All interactions are logged to SQLite (WP01).

## Context & Constraints

- **Spec**: 4.1 The Environment Loop.
- **Libraries**: `gymnasium`.

## Subtasks & Detailed Guidance

### Subtask T020 – Gym Structure

- **Purpose**: Standard API surface.
- **Steps**:
  - Create `src/environment/core.py`.
  - Class `CADEnv(gym.Env)`.
  - Define `action_space` (Text/FunctionCall) and `observation_space` (Dict).
  - Implement `__init__`, `reset`.
- **Files**: `src/environment/core.py`.
- **Parallel?**: No.

### Subtask T021 – Implement Submit Logic & Rewards

- **Purpose**: The "heavy" step.
- **Steps**:
  - Implement `submit_design` handler inside `core.py`.
  - Pipeline:
    1. Load current script.
    2. Exec -> Get Part.
    3. WP02: Validate (Manifold/SingleBody). if Fail -> Reward -10, Return.
    4. WP02: Export Mesh.
    5. WP03: Inject to Sim.
    6. WP03: Run Sim.
    7. Calculate Reward: Success (100) - Energy*0.1 - Damage*10.
- **Files**: `src/environment/core.py`.
- **Parallel?**: No.

### Subtask T022 – Persistence Integration

- **Purpose**: Log everything.
- **Steps**:
  - In `step()`:
    - Log the tool call (input).
    - Log the tool result (output).
    - Log duration.
    - Save artifacts (renders, code snapshots) using `persistence.save_artifact`.
- **Files**: `src/environment/core.py`.
- **Parallel?**: No.

### Subtask T023 – Observation Construction

- **Purpose**: Give the agent context.
- **Steps**:
  - Implement `_get_obs()`.
  - Include:
    - Current code content.
    - Last tool output.
    - Last render path (or embed base64 if needed, but path is better for local).
    - Task description (the "Problem").
- **Files**: `src/environment/core.py`.
- **Parallel?**: No.

### Subtask T024 – Registration & Entry Point

- **Purpose**: Usability.
- **Steps**:
  - In `src/environment/__init__.py`, use `gym.register` to expose `CADEnv-v0`.
  - Ensure imports are clean.
- **Files**: `src/environment/__init__.py`.
- **Parallel?**: No.

## Test Strategy

- **Test File**: `tests/test_core.py`.
- **Cases**:
  - `env.reset()` returns valid observation.
  - `env.step(write_script)` updates state.
  - `env.step(submit_design)` runs full pipeline (mock out Sim/Compiler for unit test).

## Risks & Mitigations

- **Loop Stability**: If the tool crashes, the environment shouldn't crash. Wrap tool calls in try/except and return Error message as observation.

## Activity Log

- 2026-02-01T09:06:17Z – Gemini – shell_pid=129414 – lane=doing – Started implementation via workflow command
- 2026-02-01T09:15:43Z – Gemini – shell_pid=129414 – lane=for_review – Implemented CADEnv with Gymnasium API, integrated persistence, tools, workbenches, and simulation. Verified with tests.
- 2026-02-01T09:34:16Z – Gemini – shell_pid=152717 – lane=doing – Started review via workflow command
- 2026-02-01T09:34:46Z – Gemini – shell_pid=152717 – lane=done – Review passed: Implementation is robust, correctly integrated with all subsystems (persistence, tools, workbenches, simulation), and passes all tests. Gymnasium API adherence is excellent.

Commit message:

(refactor) Mark spec 001 work packages as done for acceptance

kitty-specs/001-agentic-cad-environment/tasks/WP05-core-environment-loop.md, after:

---
work_package_id: WP05
title: Core Environment Loop
lane: "done"
dependencies: []
subtasks:
- T020
- T021
- T022
- T023
- T024
phase: Phase 5 - Integration
assignee: "Antigravity"
agent: "Gemini"
shell_pid: "152717"
reviewed_by: "MRiabov"
review_status: "approved"
history:
- timestamp: '{{TIMESTAMP}}'
  lane: done
  assignee: "Antigravity"
agent: system
  action: Prompt generated via /spec-kitty.tasks
---

# Work Package Prompt: WP05 – Core Environment Loop

## Objectives & Success Criteria

- **Goal**: Implement the `Gymnasium` environment class that orchestrates the entire loop: Observation -> Action -> Tool -> Reward -> Log.
- **Success Criteria**:
  - `CADEnv` class exists and inherits `gym.Env`.
  - `step()` processes tool calls and returns correct `(obs, reward, done, info)`.
  - `submit_design` triggers the WP02/WP03 pipeline and returns a reward.
  - All interactions are logged to SQLite (WP01).

## Context & Constraints

- **Spec**: 4.1 The Environment Loop.
- **Libraries**: `gymnasium`.

## Subtasks & Detailed Guidance

### Subtask T020 – Gym Structure

- **Purpose**: Standard API surface.
- **Steps**:
  - Create `src/environment/core.py`.
  - Class `CADEnv(gym.Env)`.
  - Define `action_space` (Text/FunctionCall) and `observation_space` (Dict).
  - Implement `__init__`, `reset`.
- **Files**: `src/environment/core.py`.
- **Parallel?**: No.

### Subtask T021 – Implement Submit Logic & Rewards

- **Purpose**: The "heavy" step.
- **Steps**:
  - Implement `submit_design` handler inside `core.py`.
  - Pipeline:
    1. Load current script.
    2. Exec -> Get Part.
    3. WP02: Validate (Manifold/SingleBody). if Fail -> Reward -10, Return.
    4. WP02: Export Mesh.
    5. WP03: Inject to Sim.
    6. WP03: Run Sim.
    7. Calculate Reward: Success (100) - Energy*0.1 - Damage*10.
- **Files**: `src/environment/core.py`.
- **Parallel?**: No.

### Subtask T022 – Persistence Integration

- **Purpose**: Log everything.
- **Steps**:
  - In `step()`:
    - Log the tool call (input).
    - Log the tool result (output).
    - Log duration.
    - Save artifacts (renders, code snapshots) using `persistence.save_artifact`.
- **Files**: `src/environment/core.py`.
- **Parallel?**: No.

### Subtask T023 – Observation Construction

- **Purpose**: Give the agent context.
- **Steps**:
  - Implement `_get_obs()`.
  - Include:
    - Current code content.
    - Last tool output.
    - Last render path (or embed base64 if needed, but path is better for local).
    - Task description (the "Problem").
- **Files**: `src/environment/core.py`.
- **Parallel?**: No.

### Subtask T024 – Registration & Entry Point

- **Purpose**: Usability.
- **Steps**:
  - In `src/environment/__init__.py`, use `gym.register` to expose `CADEnv-v0`.
  - Ensure imports are clean.
- **Files**: `src/environment/__init__.py`.
- **Parallel?**: No.

## Test Strategy

- **Test File**: `tests/test_core.py`.
- **Cases**:
  - `env.reset()` returns valid observation.
  - `env.step(write_script)` updates state.
  - `env.step(submit_design)` runs full pipeline (mock out Sim/Compiler for unit test).

## Risks & Mitigations

- **Loop Stability**: If the tool crashes, the environment shouldn't crash. Wrap tool calls in try/except and return Error message as observation.

## Activity Log

- 2026-02-01T09:06:17Z – Gemini – shell_pid=129414 – lane=doing – Started implementation via workflow command
- 2026-02-01T09:15:43Z – Gemini – shell_pid=129414 – lane=for_review – Implemented CADEnv with Gymnasium API, integrated persistence, tools, workbenches, and simulation. Verified with tests.
- 2026-02-01T09:34:16Z – Gemini – shell_pid=152717 – lane=doing – Started review via workflow command
- 2026-02-01T09:34:46Z – Gemini – shell_pid=152717 – lane=done – Review passed: Implementation is robust, correctly integrated with all subsystems (persistence, tools, workbenches, simulation), and passes all tests. Gymnasium API adherence is excellent.
- 2026-02-01T18:41:16Z – Antigravity – lane=done – Marking as done for acceptance check
