kitty-specs/003-mujoco-simulation-engine/tasks/WP02-scene-compiler.md, before:

---
work_package_id: WP02
title: Scene Compiler (MJCF Generator)
lane: "doing"
dependencies: []
subtasks:
- T005
- T006
- T007
- T008
agent: "Antigravity"
shell_pid: "60800"
---

# WP02: Scene Compiler (MJCF Generator)

## Objective

Implement the `SceneCompiler` which assembles static geometry, functional zones, and agent mechanisms into a valid MuJoCo XML (MJCF) file.

## Context

MuJoCo requires a `scene.xml` file. We are generating this programmatically from a CAD model.
We must respect the "Zone Convention":

- `zone_goal`: Becomes a site/sensor (no collision).
- `zone_forbid`: Becomes a site/sensor (visual only).
- `obstacle_`: Becomes a collision geom.

## Subtasks

### T005: Implement SceneCompiler Skeleton

**Goal**: Generate the basic XML structure (worldbody, light, floor).
**Implementation**:

- File: `src/simulation_engine/builder.py`
- Class `SceneCompiler`.
- Method `compile(env_compound: Compound, agent_compound: Compound) -> str`:
  - Returns XML string.
  - Initialize `dm_control.mjcf` RootElement OR use plain string templating / `xml.etree`.
  - Recommendation: Use `dm_control` if allowed, otherwise `xml.etree.ElementTree` is fine and fewer deps. Let's stick to `xml.etree` or string formatting for simplicity unless `dm_control` is requested.
  - Add `<option timestep="0.002" gravity="0 0 -9.81"/>`.
  - Add `<visual>` settings.
  - Add `checker` floor.

### T006: Implement Zone Logic

**Goal**: Parse object names and create appropriate MuJoCo elements.
**Implementation**:

- Iterate through solids in `env_compound`.
- Check `solid.label` or name (pass name map if needed).
- IF name starts with `zone_`:
  - Create `<site>` (visual marker, no collision).
  - Or `<geom conaffinity="0" contype="0" group="1" rgba="..."/>` (phantom object).
  - Store "Site ID" for runtime monitoring.
- IF name starts with `obstacle_`:
  - Call `MeshProcessor` -> Save mesh asset -> Add `<geom type="mesh"/>`.

### T007: Implement Actuator Injection

**Goal**: Add motors to the agent's joints.
**Implementation**:

- The `agent_compound` likely has `Joint` objects (if using `build123d` 2.0 joints concept) or we just mesh separate parts.
- COMPLEXITY: `build123d` is mostly static CSG. If the input is just solids, we don't know where the joints are.
- CLARIFICATION FROM SPEC: "Inject Agent Controls".
- ASSUMPTION: The "Agent Design" might be valid URDF or we need a heuristic.
- FALLBACK FOR V1: The Agent Design is *already* an MJCF or URDF snippet?
- Re-reading Spec: "Input: Agent Design (Compound)".
- Wait, how do we know joint axis?
- Spec 4.2.3: "Inject Actuators... for every joint defined".
- Let's assume the Agent input provides metadata about joints (Anchor, Axis).
- Implementation: `SceneCompiler` accepts `agent_joints: List[Dict]` (pos, axis, child_part_name).
- Create `<body name="part1"> <joint .../> <geom .../> </body>`.
- Create `<actuator> <motor joint="..."/> </actuator>`.

### T008: Verify XML Validity

**Goal**: Ensure output loads in MuJoCo.
**Implementation**:

- File: `tests/simulation_engine/test_compiler.py`
- Run `compile()`.
- Pass result to `mujoco.MjModel.from_xml_string(xml)`.
- Assert no traversal error.

## Definition of Done

- [ ] `SceneCompiler` produces valid XML.
- [ ] Zones appear as non-colliding visual ghosts.
- [ ] Obstacles appear as colliders.
- [ ] Agent joints generate functional `<joint>` and `<motor>` tags.

## Activity Log

- 2026-02-01T07:36:12Z – Antigravity – shell_pid=60800 – lane=doing – Started implementation via workflow command

Commit message:

chore: Move WP02 to for_review on spec 003 [Antigravity]

kitty-specs/003-mujoco-simulation-engine/tasks/WP02-scene-compiler.md, after:

---
work_package_id: WP02
title: Scene Compiler (MJCF Generator)
lane: "for_review"
dependencies: []
subtasks:
- T005
- T006
- T007
- T008
agent: "Antigravity"
shell_pid: "60800"
---

# WP02: Scene Compiler (MJCF Generator)

## Objective

Implement the `SceneCompiler` which assembles static geometry, functional zones, and agent mechanisms into a valid MuJoCo XML (MJCF) file.

## Context

MuJoCo requires a `scene.xml` file. We are generating this programmatically from a CAD model.
We must respect the "Zone Convention":

- `zone_goal`: Becomes a site/sensor (no collision).
- `zone_forbid`: Becomes a site/sensor (visual only).
- `obstacle_`: Becomes a collision geom.

## Subtasks

### T005: Implement SceneCompiler Skeleton

**Goal**: Generate the basic XML structure (worldbody, light, floor).
**Implementation**:

- File: `src/simulation_engine/builder.py`
- Class `SceneCompiler`.
- Method `compile(env_compound: Compound, agent_compound: Compound) -> str`:
  - Returns XML string.
  - Initialize `dm_control.mjcf` RootElement OR use plain string templating / `xml.etree`.
  - Recommendation: Use `dm_control` if allowed, otherwise `xml.etree.ElementTree` is fine and fewer deps. Let's stick to `xml.etree` or string formatting for simplicity unless `dm_control` is requested.
  - Add `<option timestep="0.002" gravity="0 0 -9.81"/>`.
  - Add `<visual>` settings.
  - Add `checker` floor.

### T006: Implement Zone Logic

**Goal**: Parse object names and create appropriate MuJoCo elements.
**Implementation**:

- Iterate through solids in `env_compound`.
- Check `solid.label` or name (pass name map if needed).
- IF name starts with `zone_`:
  - Create `<site>` (visual marker, no collision).
  - Or `<geom conaffinity="0" contype="0" group="1" rgba="..."/>` (phantom object).
  - Store "Site ID" for runtime monitoring.
- IF name starts with `obstacle_`:
  - Call `MeshProcessor` -> Save mesh asset -> Add `<geom type="mesh"/>`.

### T007: Implement Actuator Injection

**Goal**: Add motors to the agent's joints.
**Implementation**:

- The `agent_compound` likely has `Joint` objects (if using `build123d` 2.0 joints concept) or we just mesh separate parts.
- COMPLEXITY: `build123d` is mostly static CSG. If the input is just solids, we don't know where the joints are.
- CLARIFICATION FROM SPEC: "Inject Agent Controls".
- ASSUMPTION: The "Agent Design" might be valid URDF or we need a heuristic.
- FALLBACK FOR V1: The Agent Design is *already* an MJCF or URDF snippet?
- Re-reading Spec: "Input: Agent Design (Compound)".
- Wait, how do we know joint axis?
- Spec 4.2.3: "Inject Actuators... for every joint defined".
- Let's assume the Agent input provides metadata about joints (Anchor, Axis).
- Implementation: `SceneCompiler` accepts `agent_joints: List[Dict]` (pos, axis, child_part_name).
- Create `<body name="part1"> <joint .../> <geom .../> </body>`.
- Create `<actuator> <motor joint="..."/> </actuator>`.

### T008: Verify XML Validity

**Goal**: Ensure output loads in MuJoCo.
**Implementation**:

- File: `tests/simulation_engine/test_compiler.py`
- Run `compile()`.
- Pass result to `mujoco.MjModel.from_xml_string(xml)`.
- Assert no traversal error.

## Definition of Done

- [ ] `SceneCompiler` produces valid XML.
- [ ] Zones appear as non-colliding visual ghosts.
- [ ] Obstacles appear as colliders.
- [ ] Agent joints generate functional `<joint>` and `<motor>` tags.

## Activity Log

- 2026-02-01T07:36:12Z – Antigravity – shell_pid=60800 – lane=doing – Started implementation via workflow command
- 2026-02-01T08:23:05Z – Antigravity – shell_pid=60800 – lane=for_review – SceneCompiler implemented and verified with MuJoCo XML loading tests.
