kitty-specs/003-mujoco-simulation-engine/tasks/WP05-e2e-validation.md, before:

---
work_package_id: WP05
title: End-to-End Validation & Reporting
lane: "doing"
dependencies: []
subtasks:
- T017
- T018
- T019
agent: "gemini"
shell_pid: "249171"
---

# WP05: End-to-End Validation & Reporting

## Objective

Verify the full system loop with a realistic scenario and add artifact output (replay files).

## Context

We need to prove that a "Real" agent (e.g., a simple hardcoded pusher) can actually "win" the simulation.

## Subtasks

### T017: Create Reference Test Case

**Goal**: A known-good setup.
**Implementation**:

- `tests/fixtures/pusher_bot.py`.
- A generic `build123d` block geometry.
- A script that just applies constant force `motor = 1.0`.
- An environment with a goal zone right in front of it.

### T018: E2E Integration Test

**Goal**: Automated full system test.
**Implementation**:

- `tests/test_e2e.py`.
- Post the Reference Bundle to `FastAPI` (TestClient).
- Assert status 200.
- Assert outcome == "SUCCESS". (Tune the test case so it wins).

### T019: Replay Artifacts

**Goal**: Return visual evidence.
**Implementation**:

- In `SimulationLoop`, enable `mj_saveLastXML` or log states to `.mjcf`.
- Or use `mujoco.mj_saveData`.
- Return the trace file (or path to it) in API response.

## Definition of Done

- [ ] E2E test passes green.
- [ ] We can confirm a "Winning" agent actually gets a "SUCCESS" outcome.
- [ ] Documentation updated with "How to run".

## Activity Log

- 2026-02-01T11:53:17Z – gemini – shell_pid=249171 – lane=doing – Started implementation via workflow command

Commit message:

chore: Move WP05 to for_review on spec 003 [gemini]

kitty-specs/003-mujoco-simulation-engine/tasks/WP05-e2e-validation.md, after:

---
work_package_id: WP05
title: End-to-End Validation & Reporting
lane: "for_review"
dependencies: []
subtasks:
- T017
- T018
- T019
agent: "gemini"
shell_pid: "249171"
---

# WP05: End-to-End Validation & Reporting

## Objective

Verify the full system loop with a realistic scenario and add artifact output (replay files).

## Context

We need to prove that a "Real" agent (e.g., a simple hardcoded pusher) can actually "win" the simulation.

## Subtasks

### T017: Create Reference Test Case

**Goal**: A known-good setup.
**Implementation**:

- `tests/fixtures/pusher_bot.py`.
- A generic `build123d` block geometry.
- A script that just applies constant force `motor = 1.0`.
- An environment with a goal zone right in front of it.

### T018: E2E Integration Test

**Goal**: Automated full system test.
**Implementation**:

- `tests/test_e2e.py`.
- Post the Reference Bundle to `FastAPI` (TestClient).
- Assert status 200.
- Assert outcome == "SUCCESS". (Tune the test case so it wins).

### T019: Replay Artifacts

**Goal**: Return visual evidence.
**Implementation**:

- In `SimulationLoop`, enable `mj_saveLastXML` or log states to `.mjcf`.
- Or use `mujoco.mj_saveData`.
- Return the trace file (or path to it) in API response.

## Definition of Done

- [ ] E2E test passes green.
- [ ] We can confirm a "Winning" agent actually gets a "SUCCESS" outcome.
- [ ] Documentation updated with "How to run".

## Activity Log

- 2026-02-01T11:53:17Z – gemini – shell_pid=249171 – lane=doing – Started implementation via workflow command
- 2026-02-01T12:02:19Z – gemini – shell_pid=249171 – lane=for_review – Implemented E2E validation with a pusher bot reference case. Simulation engine now supports agent scripts and goal zones. Replay artifacts (state traces) are returned in the API response. All tests passed.
