kitty-specs/004-advanced-manufacturing-workbenches/tasks/WP02-cnc-workbench-implementation.md, before:

---
work_package_id: WP02
title: CNC Workbench Implementation
lane: "doing"
dependencies: [WP01]
base_branch: 004-advanced-manufacturing-workbenches-WP01
base_commit: 88a745c9ca863bcae9c8f185bc38a35717e5ed7b
created_at: '2026-02-06T16:45:53.912737+00:00'
subtasks: [T005, T006, T007, T008, T009]
shell_pid: "97721"
agent: "Gemini-CLI"
---

# WP02: CNC Workbench Implementation

## Goal

Implement the CNC-specific functional validation logic (undercuts, corner radii) and cost estimation.

## Context

Implement the `analyze_cnc` function which checks if a part is millable (3-axis) and estimates its cost using functional helpers and `structlog`.

## Subtasks

### T005: Implement CNC Analysis Skeleton

**Objective**: Create the functional module structure.
**Files**: `src/workbenches/cnc.py`
**Status**: DONE

### T006: Implement Undercut Validation

**Objective**: Check for undercuts using raycasting and functional helpers.
**Files**: `src/workbenches/cnc.py`
**Status**: DONE

### T007: Implement Internal Corner Radius Check

**Objective**: Functional check for sharp internal corners.
**Files**: `src/workbenches/cnc.py`
**Status**: DONE (Placeholder Interface)

### T008: Implement CNC Cost Estimation

**Objective**: Functional cost calculation.
**Files**: `src/workbenches/cnc.py`
**Status**: DONE

### T009: Write CNC Functional Tests

**Objective**: Verify logic with unit tests.
**Files**: `tests/workbenches/test_cnc.py`
**Status**: DONE

## Verification

- Run `pytest tests/workbenches/test_cnc.py`.

## Definition of Done

- `analyze_cnc` function implemented.
- Undercuts and corner radii checks functional.
- `structlog` integrated throughout.
- Cost estimated and Pydantic-validated.
- Tests pass.

## Activity Log

- 2026-02-06T16:45:54Z – antigravity – shell_pid=7341 – lane=doing – Assigned agent via workflow command
- 2026-02-06T20:45:00Z – Gemini-CLI – lane=for_review – Implemented CNC workbench with raycasting-based undercut check and cost model. All tests pass.
- 2026-02-06T20:47:13Z – Gemini-CLI – shell_pid=97721 – lane=doing – Started implementation via workflow command

Commit message:

chore: Move WP02 to for_review on spec 004 [Gemini-CLI]

kitty-specs/004-advanced-manufacturing-workbenches/tasks/WP02-cnc-workbench-implementation.md, after:

---
work_package_id: WP02
title: CNC Workbench Implementation
lane: "for_review"
dependencies: [WP01]
base_branch: 004-advanced-manufacturing-workbenches-WP01
base_commit: 88a745c9ca863bcae9c8f185bc38a35717e5ed7b
created_at: '2026-02-06T16:45:53.912737+00:00'
subtasks: [T005, T006, T007, T008, T009]
shell_pid: "97721"
agent: "Gemini-CLI"
---

# WP02: CNC Workbench Implementation

## Goal

Implement the CNC-specific functional validation logic (undercuts, corner radii) and cost estimation.

## Context

Implement the `analyze_cnc` function which checks if a part is millable (3-axis) and estimates its cost using functional helpers and `structlog`.

## Subtasks

### T005: Implement CNC Analysis Skeleton

**Objective**: Create the functional module structure.
**Files**: `src/workbenches/cnc.py`
**Status**: DONE

### T006: Implement Undercut Validation

**Objective**: Check for undercuts using raycasting and functional helpers.
**Files**: `src/workbenches/cnc.py`
**Status**: DONE

### T007: Implement Internal Corner Radius Check

**Objective**: Functional check for sharp internal corners.
**Files**: `src/workbenches/cnc.py`
**Status**: DONE (Placeholder Interface)

### T008: Implement CNC Cost Estimation

**Objective**: Functional cost calculation.
**Files**: `src/workbenches/cnc.py`
**Status**: DONE

### T009: Write CNC Functional Tests

**Objective**: Verify logic with unit tests.
**Files**: `tests/workbenches/test_cnc.py`
**Status**: DONE

## Verification

- Run `pytest tests/workbenches/test_cnc.py`.

## Definition of Done

- `analyze_cnc` function implemented.
- Undercuts and corner radii checks functional.
- `structlog` integrated throughout.
- Cost estimated and Pydantic-validated.
- Tests pass.

## Activity Log

- 2026-02-06T16:45:54Z – antigravity – shell_pid=7341 – lane=doing – Assigned agent via workflow command
- 2026-02-06T20:45:00Z – Gemini-CLI – lane=for_review – Implemented CNC workbench with raycasting-based undercut check and cost model. All tests pass.
- 2026-02-06T20:47:13Z – Gemini-CLI – shell_pid=97721 – lane=doing – Started implementation via workflow command
- 2026-02-06T21:02:54Z – Gemini-CLI – shell_pid=97721 – lane=for_review – Ready for review: Implemented robust internal corner radius check for 3-axis CNC using midpoint segment analysis. Added tangency check to avoid false positives at fillet boundaries. Updated CNC functional tests with fillets for machinable parts and added a sharp corner violation test.
