kitty-specs/004-advanced-manufacturing-workbenches/tasks/WP05-integration.md, before:

---
work_package_id: WP05
title: Tool Integration & Caching
lane: "doing"
dependencies: "[]"
base_branch: 004-advanced-manufacturing-workbenches-WP03
base_commit: 2c0348a4fca3c719c7dbaa9ae22473b672c7b6b2
created_at: '2026-02-01T11:33:53.023731+00:00'
subtasks: [T018, T019, T020, T021]
agent: "Gemini"
assignee: "unknown"
shell_pid: "505287"
---

### Objective

Expose the new analysis capabilities to the AI agent via a unified tool, ensuring performance via caching.

### Context

The agent shouldn't instantiate workbenches directly. It calls `check_manufacturability`. This tool needs to parse the request, route to the right workbench, and cache the result because raycasting is slow.

### Subtask T018: Update Tools Module

**Purpose**: Import the new workbenches.
**Steps**:

1. Open `src/environment/tools.py`.
2. Import `CNCWorkbench` and `InjectionMoldingWorkbench`.
3. Instantiate them as module-level singletons or within a factory (to keep config loaded).

### Subtask T019: Implement Cached Tool Function

**Purpose**: Create the main entry point.
**Steps**:

1. Define `check_manufacturability(design_file: str, process: str, quantity: int) -> dict`.
2. **Caching Logic**:
    * Since `design_file` path might change content, we can't cache on path alone.
    * Read file content or compute hash of the file.
    * Use `@functools.lru_cache` on a helper function `_analyze_internal(file_hash, process, quantity)`.
3. **Routing**:
    * If `process == "cnc"`, use CNC workbench.
    * If `process == "injection_molding"`, use IM workbench.
    * Else return error.

### Subtask T020: Enforce Output Contract

**Purpose**: Ensure output JSON matches the schema.
**Steps**:

1. Map the internal `ValidationResult` and `CostAnalysis` objects to the dictionary structure defined in `contracts/tool_schema.json`.
2. Ensure keys like `status`, `violations`, `cost_analysis` are always present.

### Subtask T021: Integration Test

**Purpose**: Verify the agent can actually call this.
**Steps**:

1. Create `tests/test_tool_integration.py`.
2. Mock the file system (or use tmp file).
3. Call `check_manufacturability`.
4. Assert it runs end-to-end and returns the correct JSON structure.
5. Verify caching: Call twice, check logs/mock to ensure analysis only ran once.

### Definition of Done

* `check_manufacturability` is available in `tools.py`.
* Caching works (second call is instant).
* Output format matches schema.

## Activity Log

* 2026-02-01T11:42:32Z – unknown – shell_pid=234286 – lane=for_review – Integrated tool with caching and unified API. Completed end-to-end integration.
* 2026-02-01T14:45:18Z – unknown – shell_pid=234286 – lane=for_review – Cleaned up garbage files from the root directory.
- 2026-02-01T18:09:47Z – Gemini – shell_pid=505287 – lane=doing – Started implementation via workflow command

Commit message:

chore: Move WP05 to for_review on spec 004 [Gemini]

kitty-specs/004-advanced-manufacturing-workbenches/tasks/WP05-integration.md, after:

---
work_package_id: WP05
title: Tool Integration & Caching
lane: "for_review"
dependencies: "[]"
base_branch: 004-advanced-manufacturing-workbenches-WP03
base_commit: 2c0348a4fca3c719c7dbaa9ae22473b672c7b6b2
created_at: '2026-02-01T11:33:53.023731+00:00'
subtasks: [T018, T019, T020, T021]
agent: "Gemini"
assignee: "unknown"
shell_pid: "505287"
---

### Objective

Expose the new analysis capabilities to the AI agent via a unified tool, ensuring performance via caching.

### Context

The agent shouldn't instantiate workbenches directly. It calls `check_manufacturability`. This tool needs to parse the request, route to the right workbench, and cache the result because raycasting is slow.

### Subtask T018: Update Tools Module

**Purpose**: Import the new workbenches.
**Steps**:

1. Open `src/environment/tools.py`.
2. Import `CNCWorkbench` and `InjectionMoldingWorkbench`.
3. Instantiate them as module-level singletons or within a factory (to keep config loaded).

### Subtask T019: Implement Cached Tool Function

**Purpose**: Create the main entry point.
**Steps**:

1. Define `check_manufacturability(design_file: str, process: str, quantity: int) -> dict`.
2. **Caching Logic**:
    * Since `design_file` path might change content, we can't cache on path alone.
    * Read file content or compute hash of the file.
    * Use `@functools.lru_cache` on a helper function `_analyze_internal(file_hash, process, quantity)`.
3. **Routing**:
    * If `process == "cnc"`, use CNC workbench.
    * If `process == "injection_molding"`, use IM workbench.
    * Else return error.

### Subtask T020: Enforce Output Contract

**Purpose**: Ensure output JSON matches the schema.
**Steps**:

1. Map the internal `ValidationResult` and `CostAnalysis` objects to the dictionary structure defined in `contracts/tool_schema.json`.
2. Ensure keys like `status`, `violations`, `cost_analysis` are always present.

### Subtask T021: Integration Test

**Purpose**: Verify the agent can actually call this.
**Steps**:

1. Create `tests/test_tool_integration.py`.
2. Mock the file system (or use tmp file).
3. Call `check_manufacturability`.
4. Assert it runs end-to-end and returns the correct JSON structure.
5. Verify caching: Call twice, check logs/mock to ensure analysis only ran once.

### Definition of Done

* `check_manufacturability` is available in `tools.py`.
* Caching works (second call is instant).
* Output format matches schema.

## Activity Log

* 2026-02-01T11:42:32Z – unknown – shell_pid=234286 – lane=for_review – Integrated tool with caching and unified API. Completed end-to-end integration.
* 2026-02-01T14:45:18Z – unknown – shell_pid=234286 – lane=for_review – Cleaned up garbage files from the root directory.
- 2026-02-01T18:09:47Z – Gemini – shell_pid=505287 – lane=doing – Started implementation via workflow command
- 2026-02-01T18:15:12Z – Gemini – shell_pid=505287 – lane=for_review – Improved manufacturability tool with zero-quantity safety and refined scoring. Verified with integration tests.
