kitty-specs/002-vlm-cad-agent/tasks/WP02-memory-context.md, before:

---
work_package_id: WP02
title: Memory & Context Management
lane: "doing"
dependencies: [WP01]
base_branch: main
base_commit: 7ac1f5ace2102717fef2d1a0cb5fd8df9155c3e1
created_at: '2026-02-01T08:39:17.165993+00:00'
subtasks:
- T006
- T007
- T008
shell_pid: "112735"
---

## Objective

Implement the agent's state persistence layer. This involves two levels of memory:

1. **Short-Term (Session)**: Managed by LangGraph Checkpointers (e.g., SQLite), allowing the agent to resume, rewind, and debug execution steps.
2. **Long-Term (Deep Memory)**: A file-system based "Workspace" where the agent reads/writes `journal.md`, `plan.md`, and other artifacts.

## Context

In the DeepAgents framework, context window management is handled by LangGraph's state management (automatic message appending). Our focus here is on the *persistence* of that state and the *external* memory (Journal) that survives across sessions.

## Subtasks

### T006: Implement File-System Workspace

**Purpose**: Provide a clean interface for the agent to interact with its "brain" on disk.
**Steps**:

1. Create `src/agent/utils/workspace.py`.
2. Implement `Workspace` class:
   - `read(path: str) -> str`: Safe read of markdown files.
   - `write(path: str, content: str)`: Atomic write.
   - `append(path: str, content: str)`: Safe append (for logging/journaling).
   - `list_files(pattern: str)`: Directory exploration.

### T007: Configure LangGraph Checkpointer

**Purpose**: Enable "Time Travel" debugging and session resumption.
**Steps**:

1. Create `src/agent/utils/checkpoint.py`.
2. Setup a `SqliteSaver` (from `langgraph.checkpoint.sqlite`).
3. Ensure the database file is stored in a permanent location (e.g., `.agent_storage/checkpoints.sqlite`).
4. Write a helper `get_checkpointer() -> Checkpointer`.

### T008: Implement Journaler Node Logic

**Purpose**: The specific logic for reading/writing to the Journal.
**Steps**:

1. Create `src/agent/tools/memory.py` (LangChain Tools).
2. Implement `@tool` functions:
   - `read_journal(topic: str)`: Fuzzy search or full read of `journal.md` via `Workspace`.
   - `write_journal(entry: str, tags: list[str])`: Formats and appends to `journal.md` via `Workspace`.
3. These tools will be bound to the **Planner** and **Journaler** nodes.

## Files to Create

- `src/agent/utils/workspace.py`
- `src/agent/utils/checkpoint.py`
- `src/agent/tools/memory.py`

## Acceptance Criteria

- [ ] `Workspace` class correctly handles file I/O.
- [ ] `SqliteSaver` creates a DB file and can save/load state config.
- [ ] Journal tools correctly modify `journal.md`.

Commit message:

chore: Move WP02 to for_review on spec 002

kitty-specs/002-vlm-cad-agent/tasks/WP02-memory-context.md, after:

---
work_package_id: WP02
title: Memory & Context Management
lane: "for_review"
dependencies: [WP01]
base_branch: main
base_commit: 7ac1f5ace2102717fef2d1a0cb5fd8df9155c3e1
created_at: '2026-02-01T08:39:17.165993+00:00'
subtasks:
- T006
- T007
- T008
shell_pid: "112735"
---

## Objective

Implement the agent's state persistence layer. This involves two levels of memory:

1. **Short-Term (Session)**: Managed by LangGraph Checkpointers (e.g., SQLite), allowing the agent to resume, rewind, and debug execution steps.
2. **Long-Term (Deep Memory)**: A file-system based "Workspace" where the agent reads/writes `journal.md`, `plan.md`, and other artifacts.

## Context

In the DeepAgents framework, context window management is handled by LangGraph's state management (automatic message appending). Our focus here is on the *persistence* of that state and the *external* memory (Journal) that survives across sessions.

## Subtasks

### T006: Implement File-System Workspace

**Purpose**: Provide a clean interface for the agent to interact with its "brain" on disk.
**Steps**:

1. Create `src/agent/utils/workspace.py`.
2. Implement `Workspace` class:
   - `read(path: str) -> str`: Safe read of markdown files.
   - `write(path: str, content: str)`: Atomic write.
   - `append(path: str, content: str)`: Safe append (for logging/journaling).
   - `list_files(pattern: str)`: Directory exploration.

### T007: Configure LangGraph Checkpointer

**Purpose**: Enable "Time Travel" debugging and session resumption.
**Steps**:

1. Create `src/agent/utils/checkpoint.py`.
2. Setup a `SqliteSaver` (from `langgraph.checkpoint.sqlite`).
3. Ensure the database file is stored in a permanent location (e.g., `.agent_storage/checkpoints.sqlite`).
4. Write a helper `get_checkpointer() -> Checkpointer`.

### T008: Implement Journaler Node Logic

**Purpose**: The specific logic for reading/writing to the Journal.
**Steps**:

1. Create `src/agent/tools/memory.py` (LangChain Tools).
2. Implement `@tool` functions:
   - `read_journal(topic: str)`: Fuzzy search or full read of `journal.md` via `Workspace`.
   - `write_journal(entry: str, tags: list[str])`: Formats and appends to `journal.md` via `Workspace`.
3. These tools will be bound to the **Planner** and **Journaler** nodes.

## Files to Create

- `src/agent/utils/workspace.py`
- `src/agent/utils/checkpoint.py`
- `src/agent/tools/memory.py`

## Acceptance Criteria

- [ ] `Workspace` class correctly handles file I/O.
- [ ] `SqliteSaver` creates a DB file and can save/load state config.
- [ ] Journal tools correctly modify `journal.md`.

## Activity Log

- 2026-02-01T08:55:55Z – unknown – shell_pid=112735 – lane=for_review – Implemented Workspace, Checkpointer and Memory Tools. Verified with a test script.
