kitty-specs/007-agentic-cad-dashboard/research.md, before:

# Research: Agentic CAD Dashboard Technical Details

## Persistence Schema Discovery

The dashboard needs to read from the "Thought-Process" database. Research into `src/environment/persistence.py` revealed the following SQLAlchemy models:

- **Episode**: Tracks a single run (problem_id, start_time, status, result_metrics).
- **Step**: Sequential steps within an episode (sequence_index, tool_name, tool_input, tool_output, duration_ms).
- **Artifact**: Files generated during a step (artifact_type, file_path, content_hash).

### Key Findings for Dashboard

- SQLite WAL mode is enabled in `DatabaseManager`, which is good for concurrent reads (dashboard) and writes (agent).
- Artifacts are linked to Steps, which allows correlating visual output with specific reasoning/tool-calls.

## 3D Rendering with stpyvista

`stpyvista` is confirmed as the rendering engine.

### Integration Pattern

1. Load mesh (STL) using `pyvista.read()` or `trimesh.load()`.
2. Wrap in a `pyvista` plotter.
3. Use `stpyvista.st_pyvista(plotter)` to render in Streamlit.

### Performance Considerations

- PyVista rendering is client-side (via vtk.js behind stpyvista).
- Large meshes should be simplified if latency becomes an issue, though MVP meshes are expected to be light.

## Directory Structure Design

Proposed structure for the dashboard module:

```
src/dashboard/
├── main.py          # Streamlit entry point
├── data.py          # Data access layer (SQLAlchemy queries)
├── components/      # UI components (Chat, Code, 3D Viewport)
│   ├── chat.py
│   ├── code_viewer.py
│   └── viewer_3d.py
└── utils.py         # Formatting and path resolution
```

Commit message:

(cleanup) removing all previous files except minor

kitty-specs/007-agentic-cad-dashboard/research.md, after:

# Research: Agentic CAD Dashboard Technical Details

## 1. Web Architecture

The dashboard is built as a modern web application with a clear separation between frontend and backend.

### 1.1. Frontend: React + Vite

**Decision**: Use **React** with **Vite** for the UI.
**Rationale**:

- Premium UX with smooth transitions and micro-animations.
- Fast HMR (Hot Module Replacement) for development.
- Rich ecosystem of 3D visualization components (e.g., React Three Fiber).

### 1.2. Backend: FastAPI

**Decision**: Use **FastAPI** on the Controller node.
**Rationale**:

- Native support for Pydantic models (shared with agents).
- Asynchronous by design, suitable for streaming log updates.
- Autogenerated OpenAPI/Swagger documentation.

## 2. 3D Visualization

Instead of `stpyvista`, we use a dedicated 3D viewport component in React.

1. **Protocol**: The backend serves STL/OBJ mesh assets directly from **S3**.
2. **Renderer**: Three.js (via `@react-three/fiber`) handles the 3D rendering in the client browser.
3. **Correlation**: The UI highlights geometric features (violations, goal zones) by mapping face indices returned in the Pydantic reports to the 3D mesh.

## 3. Directory Structure

```text
src/dashboard/
├── frontend/          # Vite + React app
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/ # Viewport, Chat, Timeline
│   │   └── hooks/      # useEpisode, useLiveUpdates
├── backend/           # FastAPI app
│   ├── main.py
│   ├── routes/
│   └── schemas/       # Shared Pydantic models
```
