kitty-specs/005-benchmark-scenario-generator/tasks/WP02-validation-worker.md, before:

---
work_package_id: WP02
title: Validation & Worker Utilities
lane: "doing"
dependencies: [WP01]
base_branch: 005-benchmark-scenario-generator-WP01
base_commit: aaa2c48775fd87ee5b01f821bbc42be1894eea50
created_at: '2026-02-06T20:56:59.035885+00:00'
subtasks: [T005, T006, T007, T008]
shell_pid: "185762"
agent: "Gemini-CLI"
---

# WP02: Validation & Worker Utilities

**Goal**: Implement the physics and design validation logic that runs on the worker container.

## Subtasks

### T005: Implement `simulate()`

**Purpose**: Provide a physics-backed stability check.

**Instructions**:

1. Implement `simulate(component: Compound) -> SimulationResult` in `src/worker/utils/validation.py`.
2. Logic:
   - Convert `Compound` to MJCF.
   - Run MuJoCo for a few frames.
   - Assert no NaNs/explosions.
   - Generate standard 24-view renders in `/renders/`.
   - Return stability status and render paths.

### T006: Implement `validate()`

**Purpose**: Verify geometric validity and randomization robustness.

**Instructions**:

1. Implement `validate(component: Compound) -> bool` in `src/worker/utils/validation.py`.
2. Logic:
   - Check for part intersections.
   - Verify boundary constraints (AABB).
   - Test validity across a few random seeds.

### T007: Implement `submit_for_review()`

**Purpose**: Standardized handover from Coder to Reviewer.

**Instructions**:

1. Implement `submit_for_review(component: Compound)` in `src/worker/utils/handover.py`.
2. Logic:
   - Persist temporary assets to the `/renders/` folder.
   - Trigger a LangGraph event or update shared state for the Reviewer node.

### T008: Expose Tools to Agent

**Purpose**: Register utilities as tools callable by LLM.

**Instructions**:

1. In `src/worker/utils/filesystem.py`, configure `FilesystemMiddleware` with `SandboxFilesystemBackend`.
2. Register `simulate`, `validate`, and `submit_for_review` as available tools in the `deepagents` environment.

## Verification

- [ ] `simulate()` correctly identifies unstable simulations.
- [ ] `validate()` catches overlapping parts or out-of-bounds geometry.
- [ ] `submit_for_review()` correctly triggers the next stage in the graph.
- [ ] Agent can successfully call these tools in a test sandbox.

## Activity Log

- 2026-02-06T20:56:59Z – Gemini – shell_pid=107007 – lane=doing – Assigned agent via workflow command
- 2026-02-07T06:40:24Z – Gemini – shell_pid=107007 – lane=for_review – Ready for review: Implemented physics simulation, geometric validation, and review handover tools. Registered them as agent tools via RemoteFilesystemMiddleware.
- 2026-02-07T06:48:57Z – Gemini – shell_pid=107007 – lane=for_review – Ready for review: Implemented simulate(), validate(), and submit_for_review() utilities. Exposed them as tools via FilesystemMiddleware and Worker API endpoints. Added unit tests.
- 2026-02-07T07:00:33Z – Gemini-CLI – shell_pid=185762 – lane=doing – Started review via workflow command

Commit message:

chore: Move WP02 to done on spec 005 [Gemini-CLI]

kitty-specs/005-benchmark-scenario-generator/tasks/WP02-validation-worker.md, after:

---
work_package_id: WP02
title: Validation & Worker Utilities
lane: "done"
dependencies: [WP01]
base_branch: 005-benchmark-scenario-generator-WP01
base_commit: aaa2c48775fd87ee5b01f821bbc42be1894eea50
created_at: '2026-02-06T20:56:59.035885+00:00'
subtasks: [T005, T006, T007, T008]
shell_pid: "185762"
agent: "Gemini-CLI"
reviewed_by: "MRiabov"
review_status: "approved"
---

# WP02: Validation & Worker Utilities

**Goal**: Implement the physics and design validation logic that runs on the worker container.

## Subtasks

### T005: Implement `simulate()`

**Purpose**: Provide a physics-backed stability check.

**Instructions**:

1. Implement `simulate(component: Compound) -> SimulationResult` in `src/worker/utils/validation.py`.
2. Logic:
   - Convert `Compound` to MJCF.
   - Run MuJoCo for a few frames.
   - Assert no NaNs/explosions.
   - Generate standard 24-view renders in `/renders/`.
   - Return stability status and render paths.

### T006: Implement `validate()`

**Purpose**: Verify geometric validity and randomization robustness.

**Instructions**:

1. Implement `validate(component: Compound) -> bool` in `src/worker/utils/validation.py`.
2. Logic:
   - Check for part intersections.
   - Verify boundary constraints (AABB).
   - Test validity across a few random seeds.

### T007: Implement `submit_for_review()`

**Purpose**: Standardized handover from Coder to Reviewer.

**Instructions**:

1. Implement `submit_for_review(component: Compound)` in `src/worker/utils/handover.py`.
2. Logic:
   - Persist temporary assets to the `/renders/` folder.
   - Trigger a LangGraph event or update shared state for the Reviewer node.

### T008: Expose Tools to Agent

**Purpose**: Register utilities as tools callable by LLM.

**Instructions**:

1. In `src/worker/utils/filesystem.py`, configure `FilesystemMiddleware` with `SandboxFilesystemBackend`.
2. Register `simulate`, `validate`, and `submit_for_review` as available tools in the `deepagents` environment.

## Verification

- [ ] `simulate()` correctly identifies unstable simulations.
- [ ] `validate()` catches overlapping parts or out-of-bounds geometry.
- [ ] `submit_for_review()` correctly triggers the next stage in the graph.
- [ ] Agent can successfully call these tools in a test sandbox.

## Activity Log

- 2026-02-06T20:56:59Z – Gemini – shell_pid=107007 – lane=doing – Assigned agent via workflow command
- 2026-02-07T06:40:24Z – Gemini – shell_pid=107007 – lane=for_review – Ready for review: Implemented physics simulation, geometric validation, and review handover tools. Registered them as agent tools via RemoteFilesystemMiddleware.
- 2026-02-07T06:48:57Z – Gemini – shell_pid=107007 – lane=for_review – Ready for review: Implemented simulate(), validate(), and submit_for_review() utilities. Exposed them as tools via FilesystemMiddleware and Worker API endpoints. Added unit tests.
- 2026-02-07T07:00:33Z – Gemini-CLI – shell_pid=185762 – lane=doing – Started review via workflow command
- 2026-02-07T07:02:09Z – Gemini-CLI – shell_pid=185762 – lane=done – Review passed: Implemented simulate(), validate(), and submit_for_review() utilities with physics checking, geometric validation, and manifest generation. Verified with tests.
